README.md, before:

# go-api
**go-api** is a simple example API with support for common implementations

| | | | | | | |
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| ![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mrz1836/go-api.svg?style=flat) | [![Report](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/mrz1836/go-api?style=flat)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/mrz1836/go-api)  | [![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/b6c2832dee5442c7a79b482114100814)](https://www.codacy.com/app/mrz1818/go-api?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=mrz1836/go-api&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade) |  [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/mrz1836/go-api.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/mrz1836/go-api)   |  [![standard-readme compliant](https://img.shields.io/badge/standard--readme-OK-green.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/RichardLitt/standard-readme) | [![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release-pre/mrz1836/go-api.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-api/releases) | [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/mrz1836/go-api?status.svg&style=flat)](https://godoc.org/github.com/mrz1836/go-api) |

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Examples & Tests](#examples--tests)
- [Benchmarks](#benchmarks)
- [Code Standards](#code-standards)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Maintainers](#maintainers)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

**go-api** requires a [supported release of Go](https://golang.org/doc/devel/release.html#policy) and [dep](https://github.com/golang/dep).
```bash
$ go get -u github.com/mrz1836/go-api
$ go get -u github.com/pressly/goose/cmd/goose
$ go get -u -t github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler
$ go get github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler/drivers/sqlboiler-mysql
$ go get github.com/volatiletech/null
$ go get github.com/kat-co/vala
```

Edit the [`set_env.sh`](set_env.sh) file and change the environment variables:
```bash
export CACHE_URL=your-cache-url
```

Once installed, run the service with environment variables set
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ . set_env.sh && . setup_db.sh && go run cmd/application/main.go
$ starting Go API server...
```

_(Optional)_ Already have environment variables and database set?
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ go run cmd/application/main.go
$ starting Go API server...
```

Test your connection to **go-api**
```bash
$ curl -X GET 'http://localhost:3000'

  Welcome to the Go API!
```

_(Optional)_ Updating dependencies in **go-api**:
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ dep ensure -update -v
```

Update the `reset_api_database.sql` if you have issues running the model tests
```sql
GRANT ALL ON `dynamic-database-name-generated-from-sql-boiler`.* to 'apiDbTestUser'@'%';
```

### Package Dependencies
- [go-logger](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-logger) - Local or remote logging
- [go-cache](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-cache) - Redis caching made easy
- [go-api-router](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-api-router) - Fast and slim router
- [go-sanitize](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-sanitize) - Clean data effortlessly
- [SQLBoiler](https://github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler) - Powerful database ORM
- [Goose](https://github.com/pressly/goose) - Database migration

## Documentation
You can view the generated [documentation here](https://godoc.org/github.com/mrz1836/go-api).

### Features
- Combination of powerful Go packages all-in-one API solution
- The fastest router: Julien Schmidt's [httprouter](https://github.com/julienschmidt/httprouter)
- The best redis cache package: Gary Burd's [Redigo](https://github.com/gomodule/redigo)
- Powerful database ORM: VolatileTech's [SQLBoiler](https://github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler)
- Database migration: Pressly's [Goose](https://github.com/pressly/goose)
- Ready for development or production use
- Cache dependency management via [go-cache](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-cache)
- Supports different incoming load balancer setups (/health)
- Logging each request and whenever you need logs (remote via [LogEntries](https://logentries.com/))
- todo: @mrz

## Examples & Tests
All unit tests and [examples](examples/examples.go) run via [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/mrz1836/go-api) and uses [Go version 1.12.x](https://golang.org/doc/go1.12). View the [deployment configuration file](.travis.yml).

Run all tests (including integration tests)
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ go test ./... -v
```

Run tests (excluding integration tests)
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ go test ./... -v -test.short
```

View and run the examples:
```bash
$ cd ../go-api/examples
$ go run examples.go
```

## Benchmarks
Run the Go benchmarks:
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ go test -bench . -benchmem
```

## Code Standards
Read more about this Go project's [code standards](CODE_STANDARDS.md).

## Usage
View the [examples](examples/examples.go)

## Maintainers

[@MrZ1836](https://github.com/mrz1836)

## Contributing

View the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) and follow the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Support the development of this project 🙏

[![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/donate-bitcoin-brightgreen.svg)](https://mrz1818.com/?tab=tips&af=go-api)

## License

![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mrz1836/go-api.svg?style=flat)

Commit message:

Added how to rebuild models

README.md, after:

# go-api
**go-api** is a simple example API with support for common implementations

| | | | | | | |
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| ![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mrz1836/go-api.svg?style=flat) | [![Report](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/mrz1836/go-api?style=flat)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/mrz1836/go-api)  | [![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/b6c2832dee5442c7a79b482114100814)](https://www.codacy.com/app/mrz1818/go-api?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=mrz1836/go-api&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade) |  [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/mrz1836/go-api.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/mrz1836/go-api)   |  [![standard-readme compliant](https://img.shields.io/badge/standard--readme-OK-green.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/RichardLitt/standard-readme) | [![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release-pre/mrz1836/go-api.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-api/releases) | [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/mrz1836/go-api?status.svg&style=flat)](https://godoc.org/github.com/mrz1836/go-api) |

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Examples & Tests](#examples--tests)
- [Benchmarks](#benchmarks)
- [Code Standards](#code-standards)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Maintainers](#maintainers)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

**go-api** requires a [supported release of Go](https://golang.org/doc/devel/release.html#policy) and [dep](https://github.com/golang/dep).
```bash
$ go get -u github.com/mrz1836/go-api
$ go get -u github.com/pressly/goose/cmd/goose
$ go get -u -t github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler
$ go get github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler/drivers/sqlboiler-mysql
$ go get github.com/volatiletech/null
$ go get github.com/kat-co/vala
```

Edit the [`set_env.sh`](set_env.sh) file and change the environment variables:
```bash
export CACHE_URL=your-cache-url
```

Once installed, run the service with environment variables set
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ . set_env.sh && . setup_db.sh && go run cmd/application/main.go
$ starting Go API server...
```

_(Optional)_ Already have environment variables and database set?
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ go run cmd/application/main.go
$ starting Go API server...
```

Test your connection to **go-api**
```bash
$ curl -X GET 'http://localhost:3000'

  Welcome to the Go API!
```

_(Optional)_ Updating dependencies in **go-api**:
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ dep ensure -update -v
```

Update the `reset_api_database.sql` if you have issues running the model tests
```sql
GRANT ALL ON `dynamic-database-name-generated-from-sql-boiler`.* to 'apiDbTestUser'@'%';
```

Rebuilding the models from the database schema:
```bash
$ . rebuild_models.sh
```

### Package Dependencies
- [go-logger](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-logger) - Local or remote logging
- [go-cache](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-cache) - Redis caching made easy
- [go-api-router](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-api-router) - Fast and slim router
- [go-sanitize](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-sanitize) - Clean data effortlessly
- [SQLBoiler](https://github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler) - Powerful database ORM
- [Goose](https://github.com/pressly/goose) - Database migration

## Documentation
You can view the generated [documentation here](https://godoc.org/github.com/mrz1836/go-api).

### Features
- Combination of powerful Go packages all-in-one API solution
- The fastest router: Julien Schmidt's [httprouter](https://github.com/julienschmidt/httprouter)
- The best redis cache package: Gary Burd's [Redigo](https://github.com/gomodule/redigo)
- Powerful database ORM: VolatileTech's [SQLBoiler](https://github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler)
- Database migration: Pressly's [Goose](https://github.com/pressly/goose)
- Ready for development or production use
- Cache dependency management via [go-cache](https://github.com/mrz1836/go-cache)
- Supports different incoming load balancer setups (/health)
- Logging each request and whenever you need logs (remote via [LogEntries](https://logentries.com/))
- todo: @mrz

## Examples & Tests
All unit tests and [examples](examples/examples.go) run via [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/mrz1836/go-api) and uses [Go version 1.12.x](https://golang.org/doc/go1.12). View the [deployment configuration file](.travis.yml).

Run all tests (including integration tests)
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ go test ./... -v
```

Run tests (excluding integration tests)
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ go test ./... -v -test.short
```

View and run the examples:
```bash
$ cd ../go-api/examples
$ go run examples.go
```

## Benchmarks
Run the Go benchmarks:
```bash
$ cd ../go-api
$ go test -bench . -benchmem
```

## Code Standards
Read more about this Go project's [code standards](CODE_STANDARDS.md).

## Usage
View the [examples](examples/examples.go)

## Maintainers

[@MrZ1836](https://github.com/mrz1836)

## Contributing

View the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) and follow the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Support the development of this project 🙏

[![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/donate-bitcoin-brightgreen.svg)](https://mrz1818.com/?tab=tips&af=go-api)

## License

![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mrz1836/go-api.svg?style=flat)
